# Release Notes for Mars (0.6.0)

Started on February 21st 2024.
Released on April 23rd 2024.

## New Features

- Added support for `Matrix` data type.
- Added support for `FVector` data type.
  - This data type is a fixed array of floating point numbers that is able to use SIMD instructions.
  - This data type is used to represent vectors in 3D space.
- Added network support via being able to send CRUD requests.
  - This is able to be done using native Zig networking.
- Added exponent token `^` 
- Proper random number generation with either uniform or normal distribution.

## Other Changes

- Lots of code cleanup and added more documentation.
- More functionality in the language with added builtin functions.
- Updated to `v0.8.0` of `clap` for the CLI.
- Added features to optionally disable networking and filesystem access, and to enable sandboxing (REPL only).
- Optimize your code with the new `FVector` data type, which can perform operations 3x faster than the `Array` data type.
- Updated `what_is` function to be able to identify any Object type.
- Updated `build_multi` to use the Zig build system instead of a Python script which would have caching conflicts. Using a seperate Python script for packaging the binaries.
- Adding support for package managers like `apt` and `scoop` to install MufiZ.
- Switched from using `FNV-1a` to `xxhash64` for hashing.
  - Will do a benchmark in the future to test the performance between `fnv1a`, `cityhash64` and `xxhash64`.
- Switched to building targets: `arm-linux` on Debug optimization due to an LLD issue.
- Added `x86` target support.

## Added Builtin Functions

### Math

- `rand()`: Generate a random number between 0 and 1.
- `randn()`: Generate a random number with a normal distribution.
  
### Networking

- `get_req()`: Send a GET request to a server.
- `post_req()`: Send a POST request to a server.
- `put_req()`: Send a PUT request to a server.
- `del_req()`: Send a DELETE request to a server.

### Collections

- `matrix()`: Create a matrix with the given dimensions.
- `fvec()`: Create a vector with the given size or array.
- `linspace()`: Create a float vector of evenly spaced numbers.
- `slice()`: Get a subarray of an array.
- `splice()`: Remove a subarray from an array.
- `sum()`: Get the sum of a list.
- `mean()` Get the mean of a list.
- `std()` Get the standard deviation of a list.
- `var()` Get the variance of a list.
- `maxl()` Get the maximum value of a list.
- `minl()` Get the minimum value of a list.
- `workspace()`: Prints all global variables. 
- `interp1()`: Linear interpolation between two points.
- `dot()`: Get the dot product of two vectors.
- `cross()`: Get the cross product of two vectors.
- `norm()`: Get the norm of a vector.
- `proj()`: Get the projection of one vector onto another.
- `reflect()`: Get the reflection of one vector off another.
- `reject()`: Get the rejection of one vector off another.
- `refract()`: Get the refraction of one vector through another.
- `angle()`: Get the angle between two vectors.
- `set_row()`: Set a row in a matrix.
- `set_col()`: Set a column in a matrix.
- `set()`: Set a value in a matrix.
- `kolasa()`: Get the Kolasa matrix 
- `rref()`: Get the reduced row echelon form of a matrix.
- `rank()`: Get the rank of a matrix.
- `det()`: Get the determinant of a matrix.
- `transpose()`: Get the transpose of a matrix.
- `lu()`: Get the LU decomposition of a matrix.

## Removals

- Removed `snap` packaging support 
- Removed `wasm32-wasi` target in `build_multi.zig` script, can still be built from source with: 
  - `zig build -Doptimize=ReleaseSmall -Dtarget=wasm32-wasi -Denable_fs=false -Denable_net=false -Dsandbox=true`